foreign
really trying to focus more on Lessons
Learned we're trying to get better A lot
of folks have given us advice wisdom
over the years and so really trying to
help hopefully you all with some tips
some advice some learnings that I've had
in the 10 years of building Gusto thus
far I still feel like we're early in
this journey but it is
kind of crazy to say that we're we're
about 10 11 years in at this point
so the first thing I wanted to focus on
uh and I get asked this a lot
um why why start Gusto but for all of
you you know why start a company why
does a company exist and what I try to
really simplify that topic to its
simplest answer for me at least it's a
company doesn't exist for its own
benefit a company doesn't exist
for its team or for any one of the
shareholders involved it exists to go
fix a problem right there's something
painful or broken and a company is
created by a team we'll come back to
that to go try to fix or make that
problem go away to solve that problem
for the customer
and so I really believe that to my very
core that's obviously a big part of what
we're trying to do at gusto and so my
advice to you as as Founders aspiring
founders
already Founders or even folks joining
entrepreneurial endeavors
is to imagine when you're asked you know
the ten thousandth time
why did why do you care what what is
this thing about your company that
motivates you that drives you
you know will you be as excited
answering that question as the first
time
and and for me that starts always with
the problem it starts with the thing
you're trying to fix the customer
problem you're trying to make better and
if it the ten thousandth time you're not
authentically passionate and excited
about that pain Point still then you
can't fake it and it's going to show
so I just wanted to kind of start with
that point about purpose motivation why
a company exists in the first place
there's obviously a lot of other things
to solve along the way in terms of
scaling and business model
also important but it starts really with
solving a problem
uh next piece of advice I have five or
six of these is really focused I think
there's the term MVP minimum viable
product we did not create it Gusto the
term minimum lovable products but it's
something that we talk a lot about and
my co-founder Tomer who leads our
product efforts in particular has really
been an evangelist of this principle
really from the early days at gusto
and I think this is a principle that
applies to a lot of companies maybe all
I'm not sure but especially when you're
in a space that has compliance or really
solving Mission critical activities for
us it's like getting people paid on time
correctly accurately making sure taxes
get done correctly accurately setting up
Health Care
correctly accurately there's a mindset
here of of there is no beta it has to
work right and it's not just what gets
it out the door it's actually making
sure you pass over that confidence level
of it's actually something you're going
to be proud of and actually especially
for us serving small and medium-sized
business that it's going to drive word
of mouth it's actually going to be a wow
moment that drives an emotional
connection an emotional reaction and
hopefully again a positive one
uh and sometimes that takes time you
know in our context you know it took uh
from from our starting of the company to
a public launch we obviously had some
early customers friends using the
product but to a public launch it was
about a year and a half and that was a
time when we obviously were eager to be
in Market but knew we had to get certain
Pizza the product correct even though we
had scoped it just to California just to
new companies
um just wanted to share that example
now another concept that comes to mind
Gusto today is about 2 600 people uh we
serve in the range of you know five to
ten percent of companies in the US we're
really proud of that progress we're
still early like I said in the journey
there's lots of pain out there we hope
to go help
uh but I get asked also you know how do
we think about this balance between
growth uh the term growth at all costs
sometimes gets brought up I think
especially in Silicon Valley the term
land grab can be used as a way to
rationalize kind of throwing out every
business practice and just doing
whatever it takes to win that doesn't
actually lead in my opinion to to Really
long-term durable businesses it can be a
big Pitfall frankly so the mental model
I have and I hope it is useful to all of
you
is you got to start first with you know
why grow and in some companies maybe
some of you are doing these types of
companies
obviously a lot of the small and
medium-sized businesses we serve their
goal is not to grow their goal is to
survive thrive succeed maybe stay 10
people maybe stay 20 people and just be
around for the next couple of decades
provide a meaningful product or service
to their Community that's amazing but if
we're talking now about companies that
are tackling big problems big pain
points and so there's this opportunity
to go do something much bigger
the reason to grow is the desire to
solve that pain hopefully that's a
consistent message you hear that I care
about right like why leave people in
pain if there's a way for you to go help
more folks whether it's geographically
in more places or whether it's different
adjacent customer types or maybe the uh
expansion is around adjacent product
lines if there's pain there's
opportunity so for me and for us it
starts with well yeah we want to grow we
want to go do more for these customers
and prospective customers because we
want to help them so that's where the
the draw the the driver comes in but the
check and balance again oversimplifying
a bit to me Falls in in three buckets
the first one and I listed here customer
experience if you have
and at times we've had to slow down
growth because of this
if you're starting to degrade the
quality of your product the promise
you're making to your customer that's a
great reason to slow down growth right
because you're going to be sacrificing
long-term uh viability for short-term
benefit if you try to keep on that gas
pedal second big Dimension is business
model you know I would argue when you're
in experimentation mode seed stage
learning iterating that's when you can
actually be proving out are you actually
solving a problem do you have a viable
product
what's your business model to support
that but if you're going to scale it
right before you scale it you have to
prove out the unit economics because if
you scale something with poor unit
economics it just means you're going to
have
a small bad business become a big bad
business right and sometimes that can
work I I have seen it it's not our
Approach at Gusto I really view that
approach as mostly gambling right you're
kind of betting on a specific set of
conditions staying true
um what's much more in our control and I
hope in your control
is the choice of when to Scale based on
business model and that means for a SAS
based business things like Revenue
retention by cohort right CAC payback
gross margin you know basic basic
numbers basic concepts that are
prerequisites to wanting to scale and if
those are going in the wrong direction
that's a good reason to slow down
and then the third one here is employee
experience right we all know that there
is a rate of growth on how many people
you can add to a business to insure them
being set up for success in terms of
onboarding aligning around role and
responsibility and expectations and then
giving them the chance to grow
and also help deliver more value to your
customers so I just wanted to share that
as another
uh learning Insight I've had over the
last 10 years of building
next one here is really just at the core
and I think in a lot of businesses this
is a challenge in SAS especially it
feels like a very logical situation and
I did not invent this framing by any
stretch but I'm happy to propagate it
I think if you can have a business model
where the more value you provide the
customer the more you benefit it's a
really amazing alignment of incentives
SAS has that in space right and it's not
just Gusto I hope many of you come many
of your companies if they're in SAS
obviously share this you know the more
value you provide the more Delight you
can give your customer right we're paid
monthly the longer they'll stay using
your product it could be five years
could be ten years could be longer and
the more trust you build with that
customer the more credibility you have
as you offer additional land and expand
activities for them to benefit from
the more they'll choose you right as
that partner and that can be an ACV
expansion
and so
um to me this this is something that
comes part and parcel with SAS if you're
not in a SAS business model I think it's
definitely viable it might be trickier
but it makes it easier to say the due
north is serve the customer make their
life better and do it in a sustainable
way and so the advice here if you're
early on in your journey is you know
identify pain
solve that pain and then make sure that
you up front
you know validate are you actually
solving that pain if you are then people
should be willing to pay you for that
solution right and if if you're not
really solving the pain or they really
don't want to pay you for it especially
in B2B
then you could argue perhaps you're not
really delivering much value right that
value should equate to a willingness to
pay
next concept ties a little bit more to I
would say getting into
mid-stage later stage when you're
scaling again when you're really early
on I think focus focus always matters
but when you're really really early on
you're probably only doing one thing at
a time right you have a Target customer
you're trying to improve out the product
prove out the business model start
scaling build out the team
but when you're at a bigger stage and
have an opportunity to expand the
breadth of a product we also didn't
invent this concept we use Horizon
planning at Gusto but it's really the
ability to think about what are we doing
today for our core customer our existing
customer existing product our existing
route to Market our existing revenue
streams and we're obviously investing a
lot there but what are we doing to also
open up adjacent customer segments
adjacent routes to Market adjacent
product lines and then what are we doing
and this is Horizon 3 to add orthogonal
revenue streams orthogonal customer
types to what we're trying to do all
aligned with the mission and the vision
of the company
so I really think of it as kind of a
nested set of Concepts you have Vision
that really is why you exist the vision
of the future that we all want to go
prove right like it's a hypothesis on
what the future could look like that's
different than today
and you know it's not going to be 100
accurate but the goal is over time
through the actions through the feedback
through the data through the adoption
you get that you start making that
future into reality
but the sequencing of how you get there
is a really really important topic to
debate again it's super easy to try to
do too much all at once and so that's
what planning is all about it might
sound like a non-sexy term but
prioritization planning Focus what to do
this year what to do next year what to
do this quarter what to do next quarter
you know we do three four-year Horizon
arcs Augusto that works backwards into
one year planning with an 18-month
Financial window and then we obviously
execute you know day to day we have
targets that we try to hit every day
uh but my advice here is try to manage
it as a portfolio sometimes people think
about the Horizon one two and three as
kind of a 70 2010 split find what's
right for you
it is a budgeting exercise but more
importantly it's also an operational
activity how do you go do activities in
Horizon one verse two verse 3 is quite
different different Talent
different metric for Success different
approach to Milestone based outcomes so
again a lot of different insights here
if you haven't heard that term before
you can just Google it Horizon planning
can be a really useful framework to try
to fight that innovator's dilemma puzzle
that can hit companies once they've got
past that early stage
uh next concept for me focuses a little
bit more on the how so we talked it Gus
to a lot about
you know they have the what that's
business strategy that's your product
that's your route to Market that's your
business model but the how has more to
do with the fact that this is a people
business every business you know right
is a people business it's a group of
people coming together hopefully with a
shared passion interest and a specific
problem and a desire to go make that
problem go away make it better
and you know the how for me Falls in a
couple buckets each of these I could
expand upon for hours I'll try to limit
myself to a few remarks but um values is
the one I really want to come back to
I'll talk about that more shortly
Traditions are the things that form
naturally they're not read in a book
they're probably not in some case study
it's really just the things that develop
in your organization that are celebrated
and reinforced and then what you reward
in particular right so the incentives
you set up and this obviously includes
things like compensation but there's a
lot of forms of reward that aren't just
monetary and making sure that's
consistent as well
on the value side my kind of bit of
Storytelling here and again we have
Gusto values I list them here
I want to make clear there's no perfect
values there are no values that every
company should adopt or use we try to
think about values at Gusto as a
filtering process in our in our hiring
we really think about hiring as a search
for alignment
you know it's alignment around values
alignment around motivation alignment
around skill and if someone's not
aligned with our values they're not a
bad person at all right it just means
that they would be more successful they
would do better work in a different
company and we want to help them
hopefully find that company we're not
going to probably actively help them
find that company but by making it clear
that it's not the right fitted Gusto
that's hopefully helping them get down
the path to finding where there is the
right fit
and so values at Gusto we spend time on
when we were just three people as
Founders hiring our first teammate we
call ourselves gusties hiring our first
Gusty we wanted to figure out what's the
framework we're going to use to guide
how we hired because if it's just about
skill set hey we need to do more
software engineering let's add more
engineering we need to do more design
let's add more design skill we need to
do more sales it's add sales
that's kind of just accepting anyone
with a skill set right there has to be
more to it and so that's why we came
back to values and these are values that
we screen for we have an interview to
screen four it's part of our hiring
panel it's part of our hiring committee
we've blogged a bunch about this if
you're curious about some of our best
practices but again I encourage you to
find for your own company what are the
values you stand for what part of the
how it makes you unique
and that you want to maintain maybe some
parts of it you're willing to change
evolve have go away over time but what
parts are unique that you want to
maintain no matter what size you are
whether you're 50 500 5000 and then it's
not going to stay consistent unless you
work really really hard and are very
intentional about keeping it that way
right otherwise it's going to become
something that's lost
and so
um you know again just wanted to give
you some backdrop here on values and why
it's so important if you haven't done it
when you're 50 people or 100 that's okay
now's a good time to start but really
try to think about what are those values
what are those principles you stand for
and then bake them into your hiring
process your onboarding process and your
compensation and rewards philosophy
otherwise it's just going to be lip
service to to have the words without
them being backed up
I mentioned this earlier I just really
want to expand upon it
um it's been really really helpful for
us and I hope again if it resonates it's
helpful for you but we really do think
about hiring as a search for alignment I
don't really believe companies convince
people to join and I don't believe
candidates frankly their job isn't to
convince a company to hire them it's
actually both stakeholders trying to
figure out can we do something great can
we collaborate and build something and
deliver something that we're proud of
and so it's always a choice on both
sides and so again what does that mean
in terms of tactical values alignment we
just talked briefly about motivation
alignment why does someone care about
joining this business why do they care
about joining this endeavor and there
can be a lot of reasons but hopefully
one of them and for us it's a filter is
actually being really interested in
solving the pain points we're trying to
solve right do they want to make
Healthcare more accessible do they want
to make it easier to start a business do
they want to make it easier for an
entrepreneur to go build a team right
these are some of the problems we're
tackling for example and I'm sure many
of you are tackling many other problems
right and it's not an academic exercise
like why are they interested what drew
them to that pain point maybe it's a
family problem maybe it's a business
issue they've faced maybe it's a
curiosity maybe it's something they
studied but there should be an authentic
way they connect with that problem space
because if someone really cares about
the problem that a company is tackling
it makes motivation once they've joined
very very different right you know we
call the concept of a manager at Gusto
uh PE people in power we call it people
empowerment for a reason if someone
joins and is already aligned with the
values already cares about the problem
and already has a relevant skill set
then the job of a manager isn't to to
kind of motivate them it's actually to
help unlock and Empower them to go do
their best work
and so the last one I kind of already
alluded to if we only hired for the
first two we'd have a lot of people
cheerleading in the company so yes skill
set matters yes you know we have to have
a sense right off the bat of how this
person is going to contribute but the
goal is that that skill set grows over
time people want to grow and develop and
gain more abilities and hopefully that
aligns with needs of the company and if
that can be done correctly and it's hard
because of the pace of scaling then it
can be a win-win outcome
um another one here I wanted to jump to
kind of extending from the hiring
concept is uh fundraising and again I
know there's some luxury here of folks
that have had more flexibility with
fundraising others have had more
challenges I have no judgment here and
ultimately it's a very unique individual
Journey
but when I say that fundraising is like
hiring what I mean is
if you can try to apply the same logic I
just shared about about hiring a
teammate to fundraising right this is
someone that's going to join your
company albeit part-time not full-time
although a lot of our investors I've
wanted to hire full-time they just
happen to want to stay an investor
and and you're actually not going to be
able to fire them right so really think
intentionally about why you don't want
to just accept whoever offers you
capital
really try to understand their values
their motivations their skill set what
they bring to the table same framework
is actually the approach I take
and if that alignment's there you know
then I think it can be a great uh
opportunity for for alignment and then
success in actually business building
and so I try to separate those two to be
tactical you know get to know an
investor if you can when you're not
fundraising I think it oftentimes can be
a really great message you know when
I've sent a note to someone and said
I've heard good things about your
background your relevant domain
expertise maybe this person introduced
us we're not friends fundraising right
now but I want to get to know you better
and understand like what drives you why
you're an investor what attracts you to
the broader space we're in
it actually can be a very positive
positive response and a very positive
interaction
and then when there is a moment if you
decide to go down that path of doing a
fundraising then you already have that
established relationship that Rapport
you're not trying to kind of do that all
at once over a very short period of time
and so yeah again Choose Wisely is my
advice when it comes to investors it is
someone joining your team is the way
that I really encourage you to think
about it
um so kind of summary for me
um
you know a couple of thoughts again 10
years in I feel like we're very early in
this journey
focus on the customer I think there's a
lot of debate that happens maybe this is
from five years ago maybe it's still
happening I'm not sure but you know is a
company going to be engineering driven
sales driven product driven marketing
driven whatever Department you want to
name and I would argue you know
fundamentally at least Gusto and I think
a lot of companies can and should be
just simply customer driven all these
different functions roles play an
important part in actually delivering at
least our product and our service and so
how do you manifest that again not just
words how do you keep that as a part of
your hiring process your onboarding
process your All Hands process you know
your leadership training process your
accountability and performance
evaluation process those are the
dimensions in which you can make that
real or not real frankly and we're still
working on that right it was a lot
easier when we were smaller how do we as
as Executives or leaders in a company
maintain that customer centricity part
of it means just allocating time
spending time with customers especially
when we're on Zoom all day
um and that's something you can
programmatize frankly
online business model we talked about I
think this hopefully is easier in SAS
but still don't take it for granted if
you can create that Dynamic where more
value for the customer means more value
for you then it's not a choice right we
can talk at least Augusto about wanting
to go serve you know millions of smbs
and help hundreds of millions of people
if we do that with a good business model
right we can create a company worth you
know tens and tens of billions of
dollars but that's a byproduct that's
not what keeps me motivated or what I
dream about what I love is is serving
the customer and solving their pain and
if you have a good business model the
other piece comes with it right it's a
byproduct of that motivation and that
can make I think decision making quite a
bit simpler frankly
uh be proud of that how to me again it
comes back to values but also then how
you make those real
I don't know about you but if if you
hope to do something for a long period
of time we spend a lot of time at work
you know we hope to do Gusto I hope to
be a part of building Gusto for many
decades
I can't think about
why this topic wouldn't be on the table
right you know life is short you want to
live it in the way you're proud of if
it's going to be a big part of what you
do then obviously these topics matter
and it takes time and it is worth
spending time on but again in most of
your companies I'll assume Talent people
are the majority of your cost right then
it hopefully is pretty rational why this
is a topic worth spending time on
because it's a people business most of
these companies most software businesses
are actually people businesses when it
comes down to it
and then long-term mindset
um I mentioned earlier you know some of
the tactics there when it comes to
planning budgeting if any of you are
interested I'm happy to unpack a lot
more best practices here that I've been
learning
um there is no one-size-fits all but
trying to be thoughtful about when you
make investments right how you organize
the team how you fit talent to the
various needs you have how do you
maintain that that perspective choose
the ratio the portfolio whether it's 90
or 80 or 70 2010 or whatever ratio works
for you around Horizons if that's a
framework that resonates but you got to
actually invest in the time there as
well otherwise you know all the
incumbent companies that you're
disrupting the ones that we've been
disrupting that have been around for
decades it's very easy to end up
becoming an incumbent company and then
that gives someone else the opportunity
to disrupt you if you don't maintain
that mindset
and so yeah
um kind of in closing here just want to
say congrats on building something I
think it's amazing to take that leap to
see a problem and want to go make it
better success hopefully for you as much
as for us is measured by every customer
you help and the feedback they give you
and the chance to get better and improve
over and over and over again
um
I would say again it's you're not alone
if it ever feels lonely
um it's always a team effort whether
that's through co-founders or obviously
the people that you have joining your
organization
and even beyond that you know the
broader community that we're all a part
of um
something that's I've really believed in
and got exposure to from having been
here most of my life in the broader
Silicon Valley region that is is that
it's not a zero-sum game the number of
folks that have reached out or I reached
out to and have helped me over the years
they really want to just go make
problems go away and make these systems
better has always been inspiring to me
so I'm just trying to pay that forward
in a small way and I hope you also have
a chance to pay that forward as well so
thank you very much
[Applause]
foreign
[Music]